.\" Copyright 2016 Mapillary AB, Sweden
.\"
.\" Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
.\" you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You may obtain a copy of the License at
.\"
.\" https://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0
.\"
.\" Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
.\" distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
.\" WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
.\" limitations under the License.
.mso www.tmac
.TH MKSEQ 1 2016-10-27 Mapillary "Make Sequence"

.SH NAME
mkseq \- a tool for preparing photo sequences for upload to Mapillary

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B mkseq \fR[\fIoptions...\fP] [\fIinput-images...\fP] [\fIoutput-directory\fP]

.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBmkseq\fP is a tool for doing basic preprocessing and optimization of sequenc\
es of photos on the command line and via scripts for upload to Mapillary. It ha\
s been developed with Mapillary users in mind who\(emfor whatever reason\(emcan\
not or do not want to use a mobile phone camera and a respective Mapillary app \
to take photos for upload to Mapillary. Dedicated digital cameras are often sup\
erior in the domains of optics and/or photo sensor characteristics. And, althou\
gh dedicated digital cameras may be superior in the domains they have been buil\
t for, they may have shortcomings in other domains, like GPS accuracy or lack o\
f certain GPS data. Some users might have a large archive of geo-tagged photos \
they wish to share with the world on Mapillary but the photos may lack certain \
GPS data. Whatever the reason, photos which have not been shot with the Mapilla\
ry app may require or would benefit of some preprocessing or optimization prior\
 to upload.
.P
.B NOTE:
Uploading photos to Mapillary does not require use of the \fBmkseq\fP tool prio\
r to upload.
.P
Because the \fBmkseq\fP tool\(cqs primary purpose is serving Mapillary, it is n\
ot “feature complete” nor a general purpose tool for processing geo-tagged phot\
os. It also does not “\fIautomagically\fP” enhance photos.
.P
Smoothing, for example, has been developed in order to tackle low accuracy GPS \
receivers and remove jitter from sequences. It is implemented as a simple arith\
metic or harmonic mean function over a fixed number of photos. It does not empl\
oy any sophisticated signal processing math.
.br
Furthermore, functions for reducing the upload (or storage) size of photos do n\
ot try to find optimal balance between quality and size. For optimal results, t\
he output of \fBmkseq\fP should be checked and perhaps further processed with o\
ther tools or a chain of tools. Note that \fBmkseq\fP has been primarily develo\
ped as a prototype of functions which may be implemented in the
.URL "https://wiki.openstreetmap.org/wiki/JOSM/Plugins/Mapillary" "Mapillary pl\
ug-in for JOSM"
in the future.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-a \fR[\fIGPSAltitude\fP]
Keep or add GPS altitude data in meters in reference to sea level. Negative val\
ues denote depth below sea level. If the \fIGPSAltitude\fP option argument is s\
pecified it must be a rational number. \fB\-a\fP overrides \fB\-sa\fP.
.TP
.B \-c \fR[\fIGPSImgDirection\fP[\fBT\fP|\fBM\fP]]
Center GPS location and point direction outwards (does not create an XMP panora\
ma). If photos lack a direction of image tag then \fIGPSImgDirection\fP can den\
ote the direction in degrees (to true north by default) of the first photo. Thi\
s option cannot be used with options \fB\-l\fP or \fB\-s\fP.
.br
Use the \fBT\fP or \fBM\fP suffix to denote true north or magnetic north refere\
nce respectively.
.TP
.B \-d
Drop all EXIF and other meta data except GPS data. This option is useful for re\
moving camera vendor data and photometric properties like exposure time or flas\
hlight fire (helps a bit in protecting privacy).
.TP
.B \-g \fIGPXFile\fP
If \fIGPXFile\fP does not exist create a GPX file from photos, otherwise align \
photos to track in \fIGPXFile\fP. If \fIGPXFile\fP exists this option cannot be\
 used with options \fB-c\fP, \fB\-l\fP, or \fB\-s\fP.
.TP
.B \-i
Display time stamps in ISO 8601 notation (only works with \fB\-v\fP).
.TP
.B \-l
Interpolate linearly from first to last photo. This option cannot be used with \
options \fB\-c\fP or \fB\-s\fP.
.TP
.B \-n
Normalize and add or overwrite the GPS direction of image tag.
.TP
.B \-p \fIGPSSpeed\fR[\fB\K\fP|\fBM\fP|\fBN\fP]
Add or overwrite the GPS speed of receiver tag (in km/h by default). If the \fI\
GPSSpeed\fP option argument is specified it must be a rational number. Negative\
 \fIGPSSpeed\fP values denote movement in reverse direction.
.br
.B K
unit of \fIGPSSpeed\fP is in kilometers per hour (metric).
.br
.B M
unit of \fIGPSSpeed\fP is in miles per hour (imperial).
.br
.B N
unit of \fIGPSSpeed\fP is in nautical miles per hour.
.TP
.B \-q \fI0.0\-\1.0\fR
JPEG image compression quality level to apply. The quality level must be a rati\
onal number in the range of \fB0\fP to \fB1\fP inclusively. This option may be \
useful for reducing upload size on slow or metered internet connections.
.TP
.B \-r
Resize to Mapillary\(cqs preferred full resolution (2048x1536) while preserving\
 the aspect ratio. This option may be useful for reducing upload size on slow o\
r metered internet connections.
.TP
.B \-s\fR[\fBa\fP][\fBh\fP][\fBs\fP][\fBt\fP] [\fIn\fP]
Smooth the GPS location of photos. Optionally, the number of photos to smooth o\
ver can be limited to \fIn\fP. Setting \fIn\fP to values of \fB3\fP to \fB11\fP\
 usually gives better results on curved sequences than smoothing over all photo\
s. If the \fIn\fP option argument is specified it must be a natural number. By \
default, smoothing is arithmetic.
.RS
.TP
.B \-sa
Smooth GPS altitude additionally.
.TP
.B \-sh
Smooth GPS data harmonically.
.TP
.B \-ss
Smooth GPS speed additionally.
.TP
.B \-st
Smooth GPS date and time stamp additionally.
.P
This option cannot be used with options \fB\-c\fP or \fB\-l\fP.
.RE
.TP
.B \-t\fR[\fBo\fP]
Add GPS date and time tags from file system\(cqs modification time stamp of ima\
ge file where missing.
.RS
.TP
.B \-to
Overwrite GPS date and time tags with file system\(cqs modification time stamp.
.RE
.IP
Beware of time zone agnosticism and varying time stamp granularity of file syst\
ems, like FAT32, ZIP archives, or some network file systems. When processing fi\
les with the \fB\-t\fP option, it is often best to set the local time zone appl\
icable to the source photos before running \fBmkseq\fP. On some operating syste\
ms the local time zone can be set by explicitly setting the \fBTZ\fP environmen\
t variable or the \fBuser.timezone\fP Java VM property per \fBmkseq\fP instance.
.TP
.B \-u
Display time stamps in UTC time zone (only works with \fB\-v\fP).
.TP
.B \-v
Be verbose when processing files.
.TP
.B \-x \fIImageDescription\fP
Add \fIImageDesciption\fP EXIF field. This option is useful for labeling photos\
 pertinent to street names or other human readable locations.
.TP
.I input-image
Path to a JPEG image file to process.
.TP
.I output-directory
Path to output directory. If the output directory does not exist then it and an\
y of its parent directories are created.
.P
If no options are specified then the default options are \fB\-d\fP, \fB\-s\fP, \
\fB\-n\fP, and \fB\-r\fP.
.P
Options may be prefixed with either \fB\-\fP, \fB\-\-\fP, or \fB/\fP.

.SH EXAMPLE
.TP
.B mkseq photo\-0.jpg photo\-1.jpg photo\-2.jpg Mapillary/output
Processes the input files \fBphoto\-0.jpg\fP, \fBphoto\-1.jpg\fP, and \fBphoto\
\-2.jpg\fP into the output directory \fBMapillary/output\fP by dropping all EXI\
F meta data except GPS data, smoothing the location of all photos over all phot\
os (n = 3), normalizing the GPS direction, and resizing to 2,048 by 1,536 pixle\
s.
.TP
.B mkseq \-t \-x \(dqMain Street\(dq photo.jpg Mapillary/upload
Adds, if missing, GPS date and time tags to \fBphoto.jpg\fP based on the file\(\
cqs last modification time stamp stored by the file system, adds the label \fBM\
ain Steet\fP and stores it in the \fBMapillary/upload\fP directory.

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.nh
.URL "https://gitne.github.io/mkseq" "Make Sequence Webpage"
.br
.URL "https://www.mapillary.com" "Mapillary"

.SH LICENSE
Copyright 2016 Mapillary AB, Sweden

Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the \(dqLicense\(dq); you may n\
ot use this software except in compliance with the License. You may obtain a co\
py of the License at

.URL "https://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0"

Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software distributed\
 under the License is distributed on an \(dqAS IS\(dq BASIS, WITHOUT WARRANTIES\
 OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied. See the License for the \
specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.

.SH LEGAL
Mapillary is a registered trademark of Mapillary AB, Malmö, Kingdom of Sweden
